---
layout: post
title: "COSCon China 2023"
description: "I was joined the COSCon China 2023 to share the OpenSource Culture."
date: 2023-12-26
feature_image: images/2023-12-26-COSCon_China2023/FineCOSCon2023.jpg
tags: [Meeting]
---

There was one day , that Junyi Zhang call me "Hey Fine, there will be a submit that we could go and share Red Hat things!"
"OK Let's go ~"
<!--more-->


# What is COSCon


The China Open Source Conference (COSCon) is a significant annual event in China dedicated to open source technology and software development. It serves as a platform for developers, tech enthusiasts, industry leaders, and open source advocates to come together, share knowledge, collaborate on open source projects, and discuss the latest trends and innovations in the open source community.
Here are some key points about the China Open Source Conference:
Purpose: COSCon is primarily focused on promoting open source technology, fostering collaboration among developers, and advancing the use of open source software and practices in China and beyond.
Organizers: The conference is organized by the Linux Foundation and other leading open source organizations, along with support from local and international sponsors.
Location: The conference location may vary from year to year, but it often takes place in major Chinese cities such as Beijing, Shanghai, or Shenzhen.
Attendees: COSCon attracts a diverse audience, including software developers, IT professionals, students, researchers, and business leaders interested in open source technology.
Topics: The conference covers a wide range of topics related to open source software and technology, including but not limited to Linux, cloud computing, containerization, DevOps, artificial intelligence, blockchain, and cybersecurity.
Sessions: COSCon typically features keynote speeches, technical sessions, workshops, panel discussions, and networking opportunities. These sessions are led by experts and thought leaders in the open source community.
Exhibition Area: There is often an exhibition area where companies and organizations showcase their open source projects, products, and services.
Collaboration and Innovation: COSCon encourages collaboration and innovation within the open source ecosystem. Attendees have the opportunity to connect with like-minded individuals and contribute to open source projects.
International Participation: While the conference primarily caters to the Chinese open source community, it often attracts international speakers and attendees, promoting cross-border collaboration.
Open Source Awards: Some editions of COSCon feature open source awards to recognize outstanding contributions to the open source community.
The China Open Source Conference is an important event for anyone interested in open source technology and the broader tech industry in China. It provides a platform for learning, networking, and contributing to the growth of open source software and practices in the region. Please note that specific details and dates for each year's conference may vary, so it's advisable to check the official website or announcements for the most up-to-date information if you plan to attend.



# What is COSCon'23

2023 10 28  - 10 29  ChengDo


https://kaiyuanshe.cn/activity/coscon-2023

COSCon'23  is stand for China Open Source Conference 2023 , it's the eighth conference hold by KAIYUANSHE in China.

Here is the topics from this year:

__Main Forum (Plenary)__  
The three-year COVID-19 epidemic has not defeated us. After the epidemic, Kaiyuan colleagues gathered in Chengdu, Sichuan. This magnificent scene of "hundreds of rivers reaching the sea" is just like the ecological picture of Kaiyuan gathering people's will and endless life, which is called "the continuous flow". COSCon 2021 joins hands with the local open source community in Chengdu to use the open-air lawn market as the main offline venue, setting a precedent for China and leading Kyushu to follow suit. In 2023, Chengdu will become the main venue. The lawn market will still adhere to the purpose of "everyone is a wave in the sea" and organically combine this "sea meeting" format with the classic speech "summit", which is called "mountain and sea". Reflecting each other." We hope that this year’s feast of China’s open source community will allow important open source participants such as communities, enterprises, foundations, and governments to have in-depth exchanges and open up ideas for the next decade of open source development in China. Main points of the conference


__Open Source Bazaar__  
During this conference, we will hold a two-day lawn open source party offline in Chengdu, and work with the local open source community in Chengdu to prepare for the “Open Source Market” to recreate the grand occasion of COSCon’2021.


__Web Application Development__  
Topics cover web front-end and back-end application frameworks and open source projects in related technical fields.


__Open Source Operating System__  
This special session focuses on the development of operating system technology and the opportunities and challenges faced by the open source ecosystem. It gathers the core technology experts of the current mainstream operating systems at home and abroad to share hot technical topics on the development status of open source operating systems. The content covers the system kernel, desktop environment, In terms of application ecology and talent training, we will take you to appreciate the rapid development momentum of the current open source operating system.

__Open Source for Teenagers__  
Teenagers are the future of open source. This sub-forum is organized by teenagers themselves, mainly middle and high school students. The goal is to promote open source culture among middle school students and even elementary school students, develop open source technology, and guide teenagers to actively participate in open source. The format of this sub-forum is a workshop, and its target audience is primary and secondary school students who are interested in technology.


__Open Source Treasure Chest__  
"If you want to do your job well, you must first sharpen your tools" - The open source treasure box provides open source tools for the open source community and developers to help everyone participate in the collaboration of the open source community better, faster and easier, including community Governance, project management, risk management and other tools or platforms, such as Kaiyuan Society’s open hackathon platform, OSS.Chat, Xiaoyuan Robot, open source contribution incentive platform KToken, etc., as well as tools and platforms provided by third-party communities. Let’s join together and enrich the open source treasure chest!


__Open Source Hardware__  
The COSCon Open Source Hardware Forum, as one of the few dedicated forums focusing on open source hardware in China, has been held at the China Open Source Annual Conference for the fifth consecutive year. In the past four years, it has covered special topics such as sharing software and hardware on the same stage as open source, working together with multiple people to build a source ecosystem, and discussing industrialization online and offline. It has focused on open source hardware-related open source chips, community operations, maker ecology, On topics such as educational innovation, industrial intelligent manufacturing, entrepreneurial incubation, standards organizations, and international promotion, the "Open Source Hardware Milestones" and "Virtual Valley Plan" were released, and open source hardware workshops were held, with more than 40 participants from many countries and regions around the world. Guest lecturers shared. This year, let us continue to collide and look forward to sharing and gaining insight into the future of open source hardware from multiple dimensions such as its technology, ecology, business model, difficulties and pain points.


__Open Source Governance__  
Open source governance has become the key to the sustainable development of the global open source ecosystem, involving many parties including enterprises, foundations, open source communities, universities, and governments. Foreign organizations like the TODO Group have set a good example in open source governance. The Open Source Society also established the ONES Group this year in the hope of promoting the development of local open source governance methodologies, tools, services and other aspects. This forum hopes to invite open source governance professionals from different organizational backgrounds to discuss the power China plays in the global open source governance system and promote the development of global open source.


__Artificial Intelligence (AI)__   
As the artificial intelligence industry is booming, tools, frameworks, computing power, and applications are constantly being updated and iterated to enrich the entire industry. Open source is becoming the core productivity in the artificial intelligence industry, bringing together more people and forces, always ready to create greater sparks.


__Open Source for Women's Forum__  
We need to hear more female voices, and we hope that women in the open source field will use their own stories and thoughts to speak out, establish female influence, and drive more female friends to join open source. This forum is open to any female friends who contribute to the open source field to apply for topics.


__Cloud Computing__  
Cloud computing and open source build infrastructure at different levels. Open source technology is infrastructure at the code level, and cloud computing is infrastructure at the resource level. On the one hand, open source technology has developed rapidly in the field of cloud computing, effectively promoting technological innovation and leading new technological paths; on the other hand, the cloud computing model has effectively promoted open source participating companies to establish business models and enriched the use models of open source technology. This COSCon'22 cloud computing forum invites in-depth participants of multiple open source projects in the field of cloud computing to share.


__Blockchain__   
Blockchain originates from the open source spirit, which lays a solid and reliable foundation of "trust" in the digital world not only from the technical level, but also from the community governance level. As a result, Internet applications and even traditional industries have more potential and greater value in the process of digitalization. Nowadays, the application of blockchain technology has extended to many fields such as digital finance, Internet of Things, intelligent manufacturing, supply chain management, digital asset transactions, etc. We hope to use blockchain technology to better reflect the open source spirit in everyone's life and work through "open source for good".


__Open Source Culture__  
As open source is accepted by the mainstream, more and more companies and individuals are participating, and everyone is beginning to look for the most fundamental content of the logic of collective action: the importance of culture. From this point of view, the important role of paying attention to culture is still to be at the forefront and pay attention to the pioneers and evangelists of future developments.

__Big Data__  
Big data has highlighted its huge value in the era of digitalization and digital intelligence. Looking around the world, big data technology at home and abroad is flourishing and hundreds of schools of thought are contending. It is the unchanging purpose of the big data forum to present wonderful technical interpretations to the majority of developers and enthusiasts! This forum mainly displays the current status and development trends of popular open source technologies in the field of big data. The project scope includes but is not limited to massive storage engines, computing scheduling engines, SQL execution engines, as well as data lake analysis, lake-warehouse integration and data governance technology and other exciting contents. .


__History of Events__  
https://kaiyuanshe.cn/activity

# Records of COScon 2023

https://segmentfault.com/subject/coscon-2023


# The Song of the Open Source People

On this submit we've an offical release song <The Song of the Open Source People>  

https://github.com/richardllin/The-Song-of-the-Open-Source-People


